#summary Introducing Pad Tie!

= Introducing Pad Tie! =

I'm excited to introduce the first release of Pad Tie for Windows, a tool for mapping your gamepad buttons and axes to keyboard and mouse events. 

If you've used other solutions like Joy2Key or some commercial nonsense, you might be used to spending a good chunk of time configuring it for the games and apps you use. Then after you get everything mapped you find more keys you need to map, but you're out of buttons!!

You're in luck, because you've found the newest most excellent solution to this conundrum! Pad Tie solves these problems by mapping your gamepad's buttons and axes to a standard layout which can be referenced by configurations. This means a configuration made for your Logitech Dual Action will work (almost) perfectly with your friend's Saitek Cyborg Rumble PP26 or any other combination of controllers.

All your buttons and axes mapped up now? Use button gestures to do even more with your gamepad! You can assign actions to tap, double tap, and hold gestures allowing you to really get all those buttons mapped right! And if you STILL need more actions from the couch, you can assign an action to load a different configuration, and Pad Tie will display a notification to let you know which one you're on. 

Pad Tie comes with a database of pre-made mappings for popular gamepad models, and if your gamepad is one of those, you're already set. You might instead see a message about your gamepad not having a pre-made configuration, which is unfortunate but just means you'll need to set up your button mappings manually. Pad Tie will show you the Mapping Wizard, which will guide you through the process. You only have to map your buttons once per controller and it will be remembered from then on and the wizard gives you the option to send us your mapping so we can include it in the next release of Pad Tie, and make everyone's gamepads just work with every application! We hope you take us up on it!

Once your mapped, you can start using the built-in configurations, find more online, or  build your own and share them with your community, and we hope you'll send them back to us so we can add them to the next official release!

Right now Pad Tie is Windows-only, but there are ambitious plans for bringing the application to a Linux and/or Mac OS X near you.

Pad Tie is being developed by me, William Lahti, a junior CS undergrad at NMU in my spare time. If you'd like to help with the project, let me know, there's lots of stuff to do for the next release!